[BOP-409] [BOP-1114] Cloud Providers (#107)
Mirantis/mke-docs: content/docs/operations/cloudprovider/cloudprovider.md

---

> title: CloudProvider

Reviewer: Still pending?

weight: 6
---

With MKE 4, you can deploy a cloud provider to integrate your MKE cluster with cloud provider service APIs.

{{< callout type="note" >}}

> AWS is currently the only managed cloud service provider add-on supported by MKE 4. To use a different cloud service provider, you must set MKE 4 to run with "external" cloud provider and install the desired cloud provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AWS is currently the only managed cloud service provider add-on supported by MKE 4. To use a different cloud service provider, before installing that provider you must change the `provider` parameter under `cloudProvider` in the MKE configuration file to `external`:

```yaml
  cloudProvider:
    enabled: true
    provider: aws
```
```

change the `enabled` parameter under `cloudProvider` in the MKE configuration file to `true`:

{{< /callout >}}

## Prerequisites
Refer to the documentation for your chosen cloud service provider to learn of any proprietary requirements.

> For using the MKE managed AWS Cloud Provider you will need to ensure your nodes have certain IAM policies. See the official AWS cloud provider [documentation](https://cloud-provider-aws.sigs.k8s.io/prerequisites/#iam-policies).

Reviewer: Still pending?

## Configuration

> CloudProvider support is disabled by default. To enable CloudProvider support, configure

Reviewer: Still pending?

```yaml
  cloudProvider:
    enabled: true
    provider: aws
```

> **Configuration parameters**

Reviewer: Still pending?

| Field    | Description                                                                                                             | Default |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| enabled  | Enables cloud provider flags on mke components.                                                                         | false   |
| provider | Either "aws" or "external". If "external" is specified the user is responsible for installing their own cloud provider. | ""      |

> ## Example: Create an NLB with Cloud Provider AWS

Reviewer: Still pending?

> ## Example: Create an NLB with Cloud Provider AWS

Author: @KoryKessel-Mirantis Cloud Provider has many uses that are up to the user. This example is just one way users could use cloud provider. I feel your edit could make users think this is an integral part of cloud provider set up, which it is not.

> ## Example: Create an NLB with Cloud Provider AWS

Author: commiting this given the first line of the section says its an example.

---
title: Cloud providers
weight: 6
---

With MKE 4, you can deploy a cloud provider to integrate your MKE cluster with cloud provider service APIs.

{{< callout type="note" >}}
AWS is currently the only managed cloud service provider add-on supported by MKE 4. To use a different cloud service provider, before installing that provider you must change the `provider` parameter under `cloudProvider` in the MKE configuration file to `external`:

```yaml
  cloudProvider:
    enabled: true
    provider: aws
{{< /callout >}}

> ## Prerequisites
> Refer to the documentation for your chosen cloud service provider to learn of any proprietary requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites

Refer to the documentation for your chosen cloud service provider to learn of any proprietary requirements.
```

To use the MKE managed AWS Cloud Provider, you must first ensure that your nodes have certain IAM policies. For detailed information, refer to the official AWS Cloud Provider documentation [IAM Policies](https://cloud-provider-aws.sigs.k8s.io/prerequisites/#iam-policies).

## Configuration

To enable cloud provider support, which is disabled by default, change the `enabled` parameter under `cloudProvider` in the MKE configuration file to `true`:

```yaml
  cloudProvider:
    enabled: true
    provider: aws
```

**Configuration parameters**

| Field    | Description                                                                                                             | Default |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| enabled  | Enables cloud provider flags on mke components.                                                                         | false   |
| provider | Either "aws" or "external". If "external" is specified the user is responsible for installing their own cloud provider. | ""      |

## Example: Create an NLB with Cloud Provider AWS

> Here is an example of how to use cloud provider AWS to create a Network Load Balancer (NLB) in your MKE cluster. 
> 
> Once you have enabled the cloud provider in your MKE configuration, and applied the mke configuration, you can create an NLB using the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example is offered below of how to use cloud provider AWS to create a Network Load Balancer (NLB) in your MKE cluster. 

Once you have enabled the cloud provider through the MKE configuration file and have applied it, you can create an NLB as follows:
```

> 1. Create a sample nginx deployment
> ```shell
> cat <<EOF | kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.mke/mke.kubeconf apply -f -
> apiVersion: apps/v1
> kind: Deployment
> metadata:
>   name: nginx-deployment
> spec:
>   replicas: 3  
>   selector:
>     matchLabels:
>       app: nginx
>   template:
>     metadata:
>       labels:
>         app: nginx
>     spec:
>       containers:
>       - name: nginx-container
>         image: nginx:latest
>         ports:
>         - containerPort: 80
> EOF
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a sample nginx deployment:

   ```shell
   cat <<EOF | kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.mke/mke.kubeconf apply -f -
   apiVersion: apps/v1
   kind: Deployment
   metadata:
     name: nginx-deployment
   spec:
     replicas: 3  
     selector:
       matchLabels:
         app: nginx
     template:
       metadata:
         labels:
           app: nginx
       spec:
         containers:
         - name: nginx-container
           image: nginx:latest
           ports:
           - containerPort: 80
   EOF
   ```
```

> 2. Create a service of type LoadBalancer
> ```shell
> cat <<EOF | kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.mke/mke.kubeconf apply -f -
> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Service
> metadata:
>   name: nginx-service
>   annotations:
>     service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-type: nlb
> spec:
>   selector:
>     app: nginx
>   ports:
>     - protocol: TCP
>       port: 80
>       targetPort: 80
>   type: LoadBalancer
> EOF
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a service of type LoadBalancer:

   ```shell
   cat <<EOF | kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.mke/mke.kubeconf apply -f -
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Service
   metadata:
     name: nginx-service
     annotations:
       service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-type: nlb
   spec:
     selector:
       app: nginx
     ports:
       - protocol: TCP
         port: 80
         targetPort: 80
     type: LoadBalancer
   EOF
   ```
```

> 3. Check the status of the service
> ```shell
> kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.mke/mke.kubeconf get service
> NAME            TYPE           CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP                                                                        PORT(S)        AGE
> kubernetes      ClusterIP      10.96.0.1      <none>                                                                             443/TCP        14m
> nginx-service   LoadBalancer   10.96.177.89   afdf81e0681274c52acbb7b45add87a1-637d0d850105ea92.elb.ca-central-1.amazonaws.com   80:32927/TCP   63s
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check the status of the service:

   ```shell
   kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.mke/mke.kubeconf get service
   NAME            TYPE           CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP                                                                        PORT(S)        AGE
   kubernetes      ClusterIP      10.96.0.1      <none>                                                                             443/TCP        14m
   nginx-service   LoadBalancer   10.96.177.89   afdf81e0681274c52acbb7b45add87a1-637d0d850105ea92.elb.ca-central-1.amazonaws.com   80:32927/TCP   63s
   ```
```

> 4. Load balancer should be created and visible in AWS console.
> ![aws-lb.png](aws-lb.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The load balancer should now be visible in AWS console.

![aws-lb.png](aws-lb.png)
```

> 5. After some time, the load balancer should finish provisioning and we should be able to access nginx via the external IP.
> ![aws-lb-provisioned.png](aws-lb-provisioned.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the load balancer finishes provisioning you should be able to access nginx through the external IP.

![aws-lb-provisioned.png](aws-lb-provisioned.png)
```

---
title: Cloud providers
weight: 6
---

With MKE 4, you can deploy a cloud provider to integrate your MKE cluster with cloud provider service APIs.

{{< callout type="note" >}}

> AWS is currently the only managed cloud service provider add-on supported by MKE 4. To use a different cloud service provider, before installing that provider you must change the `provider` parameter under `cloudProvider` in the MKE configuration file to `external`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install a different cloud service provider, you must first change the `provider` parameter
under `cloudProvider` in the MKE configuration file to `external` before proceeding to the installation:
```

```yaml
  cloudProvider:
    enabled: true

>     provider: aws

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    provider: external
```
To match description above

```
{{< /callout >}}

## Prerequisites

> Refer to the documentation for your chosen cloud service provider to learn of any proprietary requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to the documentation of your chosen cloud service provider to learn about any proprietary requirements.
```

## Configuration

To enable cloud provider support, which is disabled by default, change the `enabled` parameter under `cloudProvider` in the MKE configuration file to `true`:

```yaml
  cloudProvider:
    enabled: true
    provider: aws
```

The `cloudProvider` configuration parameters are detailed in the following table:

| Field      | Description                                                                                                             | Default   |
|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| `enabled`  | Enables cloud provider flags on MKE components.                                                                         | `false`   |
| `provider` | Either `aws` or `external`. If "external" is specified the user is responsible for installing their own cloud provider. | ""    ``  |

## Create an NLB with AWS Cloud Provider

> An example is offered below of how to use cloud provider AWS to create a Network Load Balancer (NLB) in your MKE cluster. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below example ilustrates how to use cloud provider AWS to create a Network Load Balancer (NLB) in your MKE cluster. 
```

Once you have enabled the cloud provider through the MKE configuration file and have applied it, you can create an NLB as follows:

1. Create a sample nginx deployment:

   ```shell
   cat <<EOF | kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.mke/mke.kubeconf apply -f -
   apiVersion: apps/v1
   kind: Deployment
   metadata:
     name: nginx-deployment
   spec:
     replicas: 3  
     selector:
       matchLabels:
         app: nginx
     template:
       metadata:
         labels:
           app: nginx
       spec:
         containers:
         - name: nginx-container
           image: nginx:latest
           ports:
           - containerPort: 80
   EOF
   ```

> 2. Create a service of type LoadBalancer:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create a service of type `LoadBalancer`:
```

   ```shell
   cat <<EOF | kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.mke/mke.kubeconf apply -f -
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Service
   metadata:
     name: nginx-service
     annotations:
       service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-type: nlb
   spec:
     selector:
       app: nginx
     ports:
       - protocol: TCP
         port: 80
         targetPort: 80
     type: LoadBalancer
   EOF
   ```

3. Check the status of the service:

   ```shell
   kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.mke/mke.kubeconf get service
   NAME            TYPE           CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP                                                                        PORT(S)        AGE
   kubernetes      ClusterIP      10.96.0.1      <none>                                                                             443/TCP        14m
   nginx-service   LoadBalancer   10.96.177.89   afdf81e0681274c52acbb7b45add87a1-637d0d850105ea92.elb.ca-central-1.amazonaws.com   80:32927/TCP   63s
   ```

The load balancer should now be visible in AWS console.

![aws-lb.png](aws-lb.png)

> Once the load balancer finishes provisioning you should be able to access nginx through the external IP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the load balancer finishes provisioning, you should be able to access nginx through the external IP.
```

---
title: CloudProvider
weight: 6
---

> Enabling CloudProvider allows your MKE cluster to integrate with cloud provider addons. Currently, only AWS is supported as an MKE managed cloud provider addon.

Author: @KoryKessel-Mirantis The first sentence you added doesn't make sense here, I believe you are defining the low level[ Kubernetes cloud provider](https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider), but this is an interface designed to be used by developers developing their own cloud provider addons ( hence the `shared interfaces that are implemented by Kubernetes cloud service providers` ). It doesn't really make sense here as here they are enabling the "implemented interface" i.e the AWS cloud provider (which implements the generic Kubernetes defined interface)

> Enabling CloudProvider allows your MKE cluster to integrate with cloud provider addons. Currently, only AWS is supported as an MKE managed cloud provider addon.

Reviewer: Workshopped the paragraph to goodness in Slack and tapped the agreed-to edit into my suggested change.

> To use other cloud providers, you must set MKE to run with "external" cloud provider and install the cloud provider yourself.

Author: done

> ## Pre-requisites

Author: done

> Cloud Providers may have additional requirements. Please refer to the specific cloud provider documentation for more information.

Author: done
